Significant updates for Test 5 (#377)
atbcb/ICTTestingBaseline: _baselines/05Changing.md

---

> title: "5. User Controls"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "5. User Control Changes"
```

order-number: 6
---
## 5. User Controls

### Accessibility Requirements

-   [WCAG2 SC 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value](https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/ensure-compat-rsv.html): For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available to user agents, including assistive technologies.

### Test Method Rationale

The purpose of this Baseline test is to check the following accessibility properties of user controls:
-   Name Change

> -   Role (test not yet available) 

Author: Role tests have not been added, yet.

-   Content changes could include component state changes (e.g., closed/open sections, sort order, collapsed/expanded menus), dynamic and/or calculated values (e.g., "34 characters remaining"), and automatically updating content (e.g., stock prices).
-   Content that changes in the course of a user's interaction with the content (including, but not limited to changes in text, component states, structure, relationships, or functionality) must provide a means by which the change in content is programmatically determinable or is otherwise available in text.
The purpose of this Baseline test is to check the following accessibility properties of user controls:
-   Name Change
-   Role (test not yet available) 
-   State 
-   Value

### Limitations, Assumptions, or Exceptions

-   The state of form elements (checked, unchecked, etc.) are included in this Baseline.
-   User initiated changes and automatic updates are included in this test.

> - If an ARIA live region is used to provide programmatic notification of changes in content, a value of `"off"` for an `aria-live` attribute is ***NOT*** sufficient to provide programmatic notification (whether implicitly or explicitly defined).

Reviewer 2: Should this test be retained and moved to some other baseline?

> -   Examples of controls include changes to buttons, form labels, menu items, links.

Reviewer 2: , and links.

> -   Examples of controls include changes to buttons, form labels, menu items, links.

Author: ```suggestion
-   Examples of controls include changes to buttons, form labels, menu items, and links.
```

> -   User-initiated and automatic updates to the name and role of controls are covered in this test. User-initiated changes of state and value of controls are covered in this test. Changes to non-user controls (text, images, etc.) are not covered in this test.

Reviewer 2: This test covers ... (bullet list)
This test does not cover ...

> -   User-initiated and automatic updates to the name and role of controls are covered in this test. User-initiated changes of state and value of controls are covered in this test. Changes to non-user controls (text, images, etc.) are not covered in this test.

Author: ```suggestion
-   This test covers User-initiated and automatic updates to the name and role of controls are covered in this test. User-initiated changes of state and value of controls are covered in this test. Changes to non-user controls (text, images, etc.) are not covered in this test.
```

#### Identify Content
<p id="1IC">Identify changes (both user driven and automatic) in the functionality, appearance or label of user controls. </p>
   <ul>
      <li>Depending on the control, a change of name may be triggered by various actions, such as changing values or states of other components, toggling a function, entering data in the component, mouseover, etc.</li>

> 	  <li>Examples include entering a response in a form field for country changes the next form field's label from "state" to "province", selecting a control toggles its functionality from sorting ascending to descending, a link appends "Updated" to its name when the linked page is edited.</li>

Author: removed the changes to controls part here

   </ul>

#### Test Instructions
<ol id="1TI">

> 	<li id="1TI-1">Modify the name of the user control.</li>

Reviewer 2: Perform an action that modifies the name ... (or similar)

> 	<li id="1TI-1">Modify the name of the user control.</li>

Author: ```suggestion
	<li id="1TI-1">Perform an action to modify the name of the user control.</li>
```

			<li><a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#input-type-button-input-type-submit-and-input-type-reset" target="_blank" rel="noopener">HTML Accessibility API Mappings for <code>input</code> controls</a></li>
			<li><a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#button-element" target="_blank" rel="noopener">HTML Accessibility API Mappings for <code>button</code> element</a></li>
			<li><a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#input-type-image" target="_blank" rel="noopener">HTML Accessibility API Mappings for <code>input type="image"</code></a></li>
			<li><a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#other-form-elements" target="_blank" rel="noopener">HTML Accessibility API Mappings for Other Form Elements</a></li>
		</ul>
	</li>
</ol>

#### Test Results

<p id="1TR">If any of the above checks fail, then Baseline Test 5.1-ChangedControlName fails.</p>

### 5.2 Test Procedure for Control State

**Baseline Test ID:** 5.2-ControlState
#### Identify Content
<p id="2IC">Identify user-initiated changes to the state of user controls. Examples include changes to buttons, form labels, menu items, links.</p>

>    <ul>

Reviewer 2: , etc.

> <p id="2IC">Identify user-initiated changes to the state of user controls. Examples include changes to buttons, form labels, menu items, links.</p>

Author: ```suggestion
<p id="2IC">Identify user-initiated changes to the state of user controls. Examples include changes to buttons, form labels, menu items, and links.</p>
```

>       <li>Depending on the control, a change of name may be triggered by various actions, such as changing values or states of other components, toggling a function, entering data in the component, mouseover, etc.</li>

Author: ```suggestion
      <li>Depending on the control, a change of state may be triggered by various actions, such as changing values or states of other components, toggling a function, entering data in the component, mouseover, etc.</li>
```

> 	  <li>Examples include a disabled "Submit" button is enabled when all required form fields are filled in, a link becomes visible after a user-initiated calculation completes, a check box changes from checked to unchecked, links that are hovered or visited.</li>

Reviewer 2: change of state?

Author: thanks, changed name to state on line 61.

> 	  <li>Examples include a disabled "Submit" button is enabled when all required form fields are filled in, a link becomes visible after a user-initiated calculation completes, a check box changes from checked to unchecked, links that are hovered or visited.</li>

Reviewer 2: bullets?

   </ul>

#### Test Instructions
<ol id="2TI">

> 	<li id="2TI-1">Check that the state of the user control is correct in its default state. [SC 4.1.2]</li>

Reviewer 2: correct when in its default state

> 	<li id="2TI-1">Check that the state of the user control is correct in its default state. [SC 4.1.2]</li>

Author: ```suggestion
	<li id="2TI-1">Check that the state of the user control is correct when in its default state. [SC 4.1.2]</li>
```

	<li id="2TI-2">Attributes such as <code>hidden</code>, <code>disabled</code>, and the use of <a href="https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/aria/">ARIA</a> to control component states must be used correctly.</li>

> 	<li id="2TI-3">Modify the state of the user control.</li>

Reviewer 2: perform an action/trigger ...

	<li id="2TI-4">Check that the state of the user control is correct after a change of state. [SC 4.1.2]</li>
</ol>

#### Test Results

<p id="2TR">If any of the above checks fail, then Baseline Test 5.2-ControlState fails.</p>

### 5.3 Test Procedure for Control Value

**Baseline Test ID:** 5.3-ControlValue
#### Identify Content
<p id="3IC">Identify controls that have a value that can be changed by a user. Examples include forms that accept user input to modify another component.</p>
   <ul>
      <li>Depending on the control, a change of value may be performed by entering a number, selecting from a list of options, etc.</li>

> 	  <li>Examples include adjusting a slider modifies a date range that is highlighted in a calendar, entering numbers in text fields determines a graph's data points, selecting colors determines the appearance of links.</li>

Reviewer 2: , etc.

   </ul>

#### Test Instructions
<ol id="3TI">

> 	<li id="3TI-1">Check that the value of the user control is correct at its default value. [SC 4.1.2]</li>

Author: ```suggestion
	<li id="3TI-1">Check that the value of the user control is correct when at its default value. [SC 4.1.2]</li>
```

	<li id="3TI-2">Modify the value of the user control.</li>

> 	<li id="3TI-3">Check that the state of the user control is correct after a change of state. [SC 4.1.2]</li>

Reviewer 2: state or value?

</ol>

#### Test Results

<p id="3TR">If any of the above checks fail, then Baseline Test 5.3-ControlValue fails.</p>
<!--
#### Identify Content

> <p id="1IC">Identify changes in presented content (both user driven and automatic). Examples include changes to images, navigation trees, data table sort controls, automatic information updates, form elements, revealed content, etc.</p>

Reviewer 2: user-driven

---
title: "5. User Controls"
order-number: 6
---
## 5. User Controls

### Accessibility Requirements

-   [WCAG2 SC 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value](https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/ensure-compat-rsv.html): For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available to user agents, including assistive technologies.

### Test Method Rationale

The purpose of this Baseline test is to check the following accessibility properties of user controls:
-   Name

> -   Role (test not yet available) 

Reviewer: I think we can leave out reference to whether a test is available (that we know of). We didn't make the same disclaimer for Parsing or Flashing, so probably not necessary here either.

> -   Role (test not yet available) 

Author: Write the test to check that role is a valid, is it correct for its purpose?

-   State 
-   Value

### Limitations, Assumptions, or Exceptions

-   [User interface component (as defined by WCAG)](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-user-interface-components) is a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control for a distinct function. User interface components include form elements and links as well as components generated by scripts. This test uses the term "user controls" for brevity.
-   The accessibility properties of the user control must be correct if the user control changes.

### 5.1 Test Procedure for Control Name

**Baseline Test ID:** 5.1-ChangedControlName

#### Identify Content

> <p id="1IC">Identify user controls for a distinct function. Exclude forms and links as these are covered by [Baseline 10. Forms](../10Forms), [Baseline 14. Links](../14Links), respectively.</p>

Reviewer 2: "... for distinct functions"? unless we mean test one function at a time, which may indeed be the case.

	  </ul>
	</li>
</ol>

#### Test Results

<p id="1TR">If any of the above checks fail, then Baseline Test 5.1-ControlName fails.</p>

### 5.2 Test Procedure for Control Role (not available)

### 5.3 Test Procedure for Control State

**Baseline Test ID:** 5.2-ControlState
#### Identify Content
<p id="3IC">Identify user controls for a distinct function. Examples include changes to forms, links, and toggle controls.</p>
  

#### Test Instructions
<ol id="2TI">
	<li id="2TI-1">Check that the state of the user control is correct. Attributes such as <code>hidden</code>, <code>disabled</code>, and the use of <a href="https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/aria/">ARIA</a> to control component states must be used correctly.[SC 4.1.2]</li>
	<li id="2TI-2">If the state of the user control changes with use of the application, check that the state of the user control is correct after a change of state. [SC 4.1.2]
		<ul>
			<li>Depending on the control, a change of state may be triggered by various actions, such as changing values or states of other components, toggling a function, entering data in the component, mouseover, etc.</li>

> 			<li>Examples include a disabled "Submit" button is enabled when all required form fields are filled in, a link becomes visible after a user-initiated calculation completes, a check box changes from checked to unchecked, links that are hovered or visited.</li>

Author: ```suggestion
			<li>Examples include a disabled "Submit" button is enabled when all required form fields are filled in, a link becomes visible after a user-initiated calculation completes, and a check box changes from checked to unchecked.</li>
```

	  </ul>
	</li>
</ol>

#### Test Results

<p id="1TR">If any of the above checks fail, then Baseline Test 5.1-ControlName fails.</p>

### 5.2 Test Procedure for Control Role (not available)

### 5.3 Test Procedure for Control State

**Baseline Test ID:** 5.2-ControlState
#### Identify Content
<p id="3IC">Identify user controls for a distinct function. Examples include changes to forms, links, and toggle controls.</p>
  

#### Test Instructions
<ol id="2TI">
	<li id="2TI-1">Check that the state of the user control is correct. Attributes such as <code>hidden</code>, <code>disabled</code>, and the use of <a href="https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/aria/">ARIA</a> to control component states must be used correctly.[SC 4.1.2]</li>
	<li id="2TI-2">If the state of the user control changes with use of the application, check that the state of the user control is correct after a change of state. [SC 4.1.2]
		<ul>
			<li>Depending on the control, a change of state may be triggered by various actions, such as changing values or states of other components, toggling a function, entering data in the component, mouseover, etc.</li>

> 			<li>Examples include a disabled "Submit" button is enabled when all required form fields are filled in, a link becomes visible after a user-initiated calculation completes, a check box changes from checked to unchecked, links that are hovered or visited.</li>

Reviewer 2: "links that are hovered over"?

Reviewer 3: Good catch!   The browser can tell between (recently) visited and unvisited links, but does that count as a state change?
